First, unzip the project file. Next, you must install the text2emotion python package. You can install this package by typing “pip install text2emotion” into the terminal. The only other packages necessary are the flask and werkzeug packages that everyone installed earlier in the course for CS50 Finance. We were planning to use a package called Spotipy that would allow us to create a Spotify playlist, but we did not end up doing that, so you can ignore the Spotify libraries in our program. Once you have installed the text2emotion package, enter the flatNotes directory by typing “cd flatNotes'' into the terminal. Once you are in the flatNotes directory, all you need to do is type “flask run” in the terminal to host the website.
When you open the website, the first thing you will see is our login page, since our homepage is login required. Since you will not have an account, you can create an account by clicking on the register button in the top right. Unregistered users can also view our about page to read a description of the website before registering an account. On the register page, you should enter the username and password (and also confirm the password) that you want to use for your account. Once you are registered, you will be redirected to our home page. In the future, you can log in with your credentials through the log in page.
On our home page, you will see a text entry box and a greeting message that says “what’s on your mind?” To create a journal entry, start typing into the text entry box. The one-minute timer at the bottom will start counting down, and your journal entry will be submitted when the timer hits 0:00. You can also submit the entry before the timer is finished by pressing the submit button. If you press the clear button, the text box will clear everything you wrote after sending you a warning.
Once your journal entry has been submitted, a results page will appear with a doughnut chart displaying your emotions and a short blurb about your strongest emotion. Each of the five emotions is ranked on a scale from 0 to 1 with all your emotion scores adding up to 1. You can hover over the different sections of the doughnut chart to see labels showing what each color represents, or you can just look at the legend. To write a new journal entry, you can click on the word “flatNotes” in the navbar at the top of the page to return to the home page.
You can click on the vibes tab in the navbar to see a chart showing how your mood has changed with each journal entry. The chart has five lines showing how each of your emotions has changed over time with the oldest journal entries on the left and the newest journal entries on the right. You can click on the names of the emotions in the legend at the bottom of the chart to turn off the display of certain emotions. For example, if you clicked on “Angry” in the legend, the trendline for your angry emotion would stop displaying. You can turn the display back on by clicking the name of the emotion again. Once you reach more than ten journal entries, you will have to use the scroll bar to scroll through the entire graph. We wanted to space out the entries so that the graph didn’t get too crowded.
You can click on the journals tab in the navbar to see all your past journal entries and the date you wrote them. If you want to delete an old journal entry, you can click the “x” delete button next to that entry to delete the entry from your account.
You can click on the about tab to see the about page that was mentioned earlier. It contains a description of the website with photos of the two creators. If you click on the photos, you can view our twitter profiles. There’s also a link to the text2emotion python library that we used in the about description (it’s linked to the text “this python library”). If you haven’t noticed already, we also have links to our linkedin pages at the bottom of every page where it says “made by baji tumendemberel and william zhu” (clicking on each name takes you to the respective linkedin page).
Once you’re done browsing our website, you can click the logout tab on the navbar to log out of your account and bring yourself back to the login page. We hope you enjoy using our website!
Youtube video link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FchzzXBmzvs&feature=youtu.be